
clr Library (gateway to .net)
clr is a package to access .net framework types and namespaces. The package will create for every member a new package, that reference to namespace, type or class.

For example

local sys = clr.System;


creates a package for the namespance system and assigns this new package to the local variable sys.

local StringBuilder = sys.Text.StringBuilder;
local StringBuilder1 = clr.System.Text.StringBuilder; -- same result


Use this variable like the using in .net to access the type StringBuilder.

To create a new object from the type call the package like a function. This will invoke the constructor.

local sb = StringBuilder('text');
local sb1 = clr.System.Text.StringBuilder('test'); -- same result



If the type is generic use the index access to create a non generic class.

local lst = clr.System.Collections.Generic.List[clr.System.Object]();
local ListGeneric =clr.System.Collections.Generic.List;
local ListString = ListGeneric[clr.System.String]();



The clr package is a "build in" package, so it is useable in Lua-Lambda's.

using (Lua l = new Lua())
{
  var f = l.CreateLambda<Func<double, double>>("f", "return clr.System.Math:Abs(x) * 2", "x");
  Console.WriteLine("f({0}) = {1}", 2, f(2));
  Console.WriteLine("f({0}) = {1}", 2, f(-2));

  var f2 = l.CreateLambda("f2", "local Math = clr.System.Math; return Math:Abs(x) * 2;", 
     null, typeof(double), new KeyValuePair<string, Type>("x", typeof(double)));
  Console.WriteLine("f2({0}) = {1}", 2, f2.DynamicInvoke(2));
  Console.WriteLine("f2({0}) = {1}", 2, f2.DynamicInvoke(-2));

Example for StringBuilder

local sys = clr.System;
local sb = sys.Text.StringBuilder();
sb:Append('Hallo '):Append('Welt!');
return sb:ToString();


Lua-Script without any dynamic calls. The runtime of this script is the same like a C# method.

const StringBuilder typeof System.Text.StringBuilder();
local sb : StringBuilder = StringBuilder();
sb:Append('Hallo '):Append('Welt!');
return sb:ToString();


Example to work with List's

local lst = clr.System.Collections.Generic.List[clr.System.Object]();

lst:Add(1);
lst:Add(2);
lst:Add("String");

print("Enum:");
foreach a in lst do
  print(a);
end;

print("Index:");
for i = 0,lst.Count-1,1 do
  print(i .. ": " .. lst[i]);
end;

return lst.Count;


Events
Events get two new virtual members to add or remove methods of the event. It is important, that the signatures must fit together.

public class MyClass
{
  public event Action EventTest;
}

Lua:

myClass.EventTest:add(function() : void print('test'); end);

